All right.
We are now gonna start this class.
I'm pretty excited about doing this class.
I had been preparing this for
the last couple months.
This was my favorite
class I did in school.
I still remember this very, very vividly.
When I first did computer science,
I really actually kind of hated
the experience of it the first class of
computer science just
learning how to program Java.
Maybe it was just Java that I hated.
I don't know what happened but it was
really boring it was really mechanical.
I thought it was so
mechanical that I'd rather do mechanical
engineering I did a year of
Mechanical Engineering after that.
And realize the only thing I hate
more in the introduction to computer
science are integrals.
And so, that made me change
back to doing computer science.
And when I did, I went to the second
class, Ray Babcock was teaching it and
we went over linked list.
And I still remember like looking
at the screen just blown away.
And I was like, this is awesome.
I love this and
this is the coolest thing ever.
And so, at that point I just
couldn't get it out of my head.
I was so excited and so I've always really
appreciated specifically this topic it
just is such a cool, cool topic.
And so, I'm pretty excited to be here I'm
pretty excited to be able to teach this.
And so,
I hope everybody is also very excited.
The last course you'll ever need
that does seem a bit much, right?
Well, it is hopefully the last
algorithms course you'll ever need.
But there is definitely an expectation
that you will have to go out and still
continue to understand and learn these
things and actually apply what you learn.
Cuz anything you do, what happens to it,
it atrophies super, super quick.
You're gonna lose it all in the next
six months if you don't think about it,
if you don't do it.
One of the benefits of going to school
is that you have the same stuff over
the course of three years.
So, it takes a lot longer for
that to atrophy if you have
to keep on going back to it.
Just like I still have silly doom
cheat code stuck in my head from
20 years ago cuz I entered it in so
many times.
All right,
these are the algorithms I did run into.
So, over the course of my
either interviewing career or
professional career, I have also tried to
hand select the ones that I've used at
least once in a professional setting.
One that I've had to build or
had to understand the difference
of why use one or the other.
I think that it's really, really good
to try to be as practical as possible.
Cuz I think a lot of times you'll learn
about algorithms like Merkle trees, and
you'll be like, wow, this is incredible.
But then, you're never gonna be the person
writing a new crypto coin coming out.
So, you're probably never gonna be able
to even use any of these sweet hashing
algorithms, right?
So, it's just like there's a point
where algorithms become unusable for
the average professional.
But I think there's a huge amount of
algorithms that are super useful to
the average professional.
Even though they think they will never
run into them, you use them all the time,
like nonstop.
All right.
So, why should you care about them?
A lot of times you hear the phrase,
it's kind of old-fashioned to
interview with algorithms, right?
That's kind of like the twitter momentum.
All right, now is that if you
do white boarding interview,
the company's stupid
whatever twitter says.
I do bad twitter impersonations or you
don't actually use any of them on the job.
Well, the reality is that, sure,
maybe algorithms aren't
the best way to interview.
And sure, maybe you don't use a lot
of them on the job constantly.
But the reality is that,
there is a secret handshake to
get into a very good paying job.
Learn the handshake, right?
Why fight the system when
it's just available and
it's free online to go learn.
And you get an opportunity
right now to learn.
So, I always thought that was
kind of like a strange argument.
So, here we go.
So, here's the big question I want to
ask you.
Is that in the array?
What's used here?
For those that I assume everybody
here is familiar with TypeScript,
I chose TypeScript intentionally.
Because I want the broadest
audience possible.
Is that an array,
would everyone say that's an array?
>> Yeah.
>> All right, great.
What if I told you that's not an array?
Would you be shocked?
Hopefully you'd be shocked because
you're like, wow, my life's lie.
Also extremely old meme.
Yes, I get it's a very old meme and guests
your life may or may not have been alive.
Remember arrays are the simplest data
structure, you should be able to know,
if you're looking at an array or
not, right?
They're the most fundamental basics or
basic data structure.
Well, let's find out.
Next, we'll also cover time and
space complexity.
There's not gonna be any proofs,
I will do what's called solving of
an equation nothing really, really large.
But we're gonna try to keep it really
simple because for the most part in
the professional world you don't
do a lot of time-space break down,
you really only do it during an interview.
And you don't even do best average and
worst case, you just do worst case.
Like what's the running time?
Well, actually,
if you give this input you don't even
do that you're just like it's this.
And why TypeScript?
I chose it because it's the most
beginner friendly language,
even though it's actually kinda bad for
data structures and algorithms.
Good example, you cannot use pure
type script to create a map.
It's just you have to use C++ there's
no way to uniquely identify an object.
So, if you just give me a POJO a plain
old JavaScript object with foo bar as
the properties, I can't distinguish
two of them from each other.
So, you can't even create
a map in actual JavaScript.
So, there is this kind of uniqueness
with JavaScript that makes it kind of
a terrible language for this.
It also doesn't have arrays in the
traditional sense there's a lot of unique
things about it.
So, by the way if you're also interested
in real languages such as Rust,
we just released this
course I think yesterday.
I programmed in TypeScript and didn't go,
Graham over there saw this and
in Rust and I build the same
application at the same time.
And all three languages help
you learn a different language.
Who am?
I am the CEO of the Startup,
please try harder.
I do a YouTube channel I'm almost at
100,000 subs, that means I get a little
plaque which means I get to lick
the plaque very excited about that.
I stream a lot of live coding,
that's a lot of fun.
And I poop post on the internet,
That's for you production team.
And there you go, that's a great one,
no one can actually mention it.
Anyway, so
I hope you guys are ready to get started.
I intentionally tried to make this
introduction as short as possible because
the main contents or the topic
we're covering is fairly large and
I want you to get the most out of this.
So, there we go.
And one last note, when I was at
university I did this two day courses
approximately the second semester class
a little bit of the fourth semester class.
And my second semester class math
three times a week for one hour,
it's expected for 15 weeks.
You're expected to do three hours
of study for every one hour or
four hours of study for
every one hour of class time.
Plus a one hour lab once a week,
which is five hours of preparing.
So, that's equivalent of 225 hours
over the course of 15 weeks.
And we're gonna try to do all that
in 16 hours, plus lunch breaks,
plus bathroom breaks, plus all that.
So, again, it's gonna take some
of your effort outside of this to
really understand a lot of these things.
Here you go.
Here are two books that I have bought.
Minimum I have these two books I bought
at least four copies of them combined.
So, I may or
may not have lost them over the years.
The first one is extremely academic.
This Introduction to algorithms it's very
very academic it's gonna go over proofs.
But it is by far the most complete
book I've read on algorithms.
Anyone who's in the chat who is
mildly familiar with algorithms or
went to some sort of school will
probably could guess the book,
guess what's on the cover the tree book.
The second one is I named it this way cuz
I thought it was funny for programmers who
don't know data structures and
we'd like to do other things as well too.
So, that one is at the zoo and
reference for those who don't know.
But that one right there is
more of a very simple one.
This course will cover about
maybe 75% of the book and
then it kind of it
deviates in various areas.
But that one's a much more
beginner friendly one.
The proofs are much smaller,
if there is really any proofs to it.
The topics are a lot lighter,
they don't cover nearly as much in trees.
Do a little bit of graphs, right?
So, it's a much nicer beginner
friendly algorithms book.